# Individual Assessment

> Ben Cimini (ciminibb@mail.uc.edu), CS

My capstone project should be both a culmination and, critically, an extension of all I’ve learned
as a student. It should use the aggregate of my academic and professional training to produce
something of significant quality, challenge, and ultimately newness. There are many steps to get
there, but they all start with my choices today. My project should be partly unfamiliar. It’s my
responsibility to ensure that it includes things I was never formally taught. I believe Knowball, in
its infant form, is such a project. I’ve never made a game, worked with ML, or maintained an
active web application – all of which will be necessary, assuming our design holds.

UC’s CS curriculum has required me to complete several projects. In ENED 1100 and 1120, I made a
simple robot; in MECH 1072 (not CS but still relevant), I modeled an engine; in EECE 3093C, I
developed a moneyline aggregator; in CS 4065, I wrote a client-server message board. None had the
breadth of a capstone project, but they’ve given me the tools to handle it. The lesson that has
stuck with me most is project management. It’s not difficult to understand, but it’s difficult to
execute. Poor management is often a point of failure – one which my project won’t have. Of course,
my theoretical knowledge will also be useful. CS 3003 exposed me to several languages that will
certainly be part of Knowball; CS 4071 taught me essential algorithms that could improve
performance. We might use a deterministic algorithm to grade athlete obscurity. Regardless of
whether we incorporate a famous, named algorithm (e.g., Dijkstra’s), algorithmic thinking will be an
asset.

My co-ops have taught me a great deal, too. They had less theory, but more practical use; less
formality, but more enterprise knowledge. Luckily, all the above are necessary in a software
project. It’s worth noting that, though I spent all my co-ops with Lubrizol, I started as a
mechanical engineer. Though there is less one-to-one overlap with that role (Asset Services) than
with my subsequent roles, overlap still exists. That semester, I learned to keep a safety-focused
mindset. Software has safety concerns that, in some cases, can be just as consequential as a
mechanical failure. Knowball won’t be so high-stakes. Still, it’s important to avoid faults like an
overloaded database. Speaking of which, my Custom Applications and Data Intelligence roles leave me
well-practiced in database design. I built databases for an onboarding application, a feedback tool,
request forms, and a corporate planning portal. They were simple systems but required me to use
Entity Relationship Diagrams, normalization methods, and more. Those tools will be essential to the
Knowball backend. We could store user data for leaderboards, cache commonly-named athletes, and
more.

We considered many projects from many sources, contacting faculty, nonprofits, and employers. Dr.
Hawkins then gave what proved to be influential advice. He said the biggest factor in a successful
capstone is remaining interested, and the surest way to guarantee that is by generating a project
idea ourselves. So, we brainstormed. When doing so, we focused on some areas of collective interest:
sports, music, and travel. Ideas like a playlist generator from user biometric data and a scout-film
analysis tool for our football team were just pipped by Knowball – whose initial appeal was
multifaceted. For one, we had fun miming the game, which confirmed its potential. Also, it didn’t
have potential chokepoints like hardware or third parties. Ultimately, it got the team most excited.

Knowball still needs to be scoped a bit. That’s a subject for our next meeting, which Dr. Hawkins
will help with. Therefore, I can’t offer specifics on our approach, architecture, or solution with
much accuracy. Still, there is plenty that we know. We know the game should be browser-based; we’d
like it to have an AI/ML component, but won’t force it; we will pursue a turn-based, asynchronous,
player-versus-player mechanic; it should have live leaderboards, per category. From those axioms,
some obvious needs emerge. For example, we need a database to maintain leaderboards with ephemeral
data for active games. An external data source, from which to draw player statistics, is another
probable inclusion. Regardless, our objective remains the same. Each member’s priority is to receive
an “A” grade. Any greater results, like recognition at the expo, are a bonus. Therefore, our
“good job” is conducting each phase – design, documentation, development, presentation –
professionally and with commitment; our “done” is fulfilling our design, though it may change
throughout the process. The game will be available to play, look polished, and run smoothly.
