# Individual Assessment

> Blair Bowen (bowenbv@mail.uc.edu), CS

For my final senior design project, I wanted to work on something that combines something that I am passionate about with skills I have acquired during my 4+ years of learning computer science. But with most things in this field, you never know everything there is to understand in the world of computer science. I want this project to not only reinforce skills I’ve picked up but also to challenge myself by learning and exercising other new and exciting topics. I also want to practice being a co-lead on a project of our own. Throughout most of my academic progress thus far there haven’t been many opportunities to develop a project from scratch. This project “Knowball” seems like an excellent prospect for me to showcase my skills that I have acquired in a team setting since it combines my passion for sports and software engineering alike. I have some experience with “big data” which might me applicable to this project, but some of the other systems needed for this project (Machine Learning, Web Development, Database Development) I have little to no experience in and am ready to learn more about.

My learning experience within the UC computer science curriculum has been lack luster in my eyes (apart from a few courses). Most of my learning has been done thorough my co-ops or personal self-learning. As I said, however, there were a few classes that stood out to me as my time as a student and I believe could help me succeed during the extent of this project. Starting off with the ENED series of courses 1100 & 1120, these classes help set the foundation for any engineering project with the robot project. In this course we learned a lot about project management and planning which will be an important part of this first senior design semester. Another class where I learned the importance of project management especially was the EECE3093C Software Engineering course where we had to develop a software project of our choosing in 13ish weeks (what I imagine a shortened version of this project will be). Another class that taught me some how to think like a computer scientist and/or developer was CS3003 Programming Languages which taught me how and why some languages (tools) are built. EECE4029 Operating Systems & System Programming I think will also be useful for this project even though we don’t plan to go to low level because in the same vein as CS3003 I can better think and understand how and why logic should be built.

Moving on to my valuable learning experiences throughout my degree thus far, my co-ops. I completed 3 rotations at GE appliances as an Embedded Software Engineering Co-op working on embedded systems in C (which won’t be used too much in my senior design project I imagine). My time at GEA taught me what makes a truly well thought out software system that is built to last and is easy to iterate over since once we ship a product it is not the easiest thing to update the code on the machine. Looking back at my experience at GEA I realized that I did a good amount of database design and development but since it was developed for use in an embedded environment it was an abstracted version of the idea. This should prove useful in some capacity for the project since we plan on having heavy data usage. My other co-op at 84.51 should prove more useful for this project specifically since my role was a Data Engineer. I worked closely with some machine learning specialized data scientists and my job was to prepare data for them which are skills that will be needed for this project moving forward.

I am very excited to start working on my senior design project. This not only symbolizes the near completion of my computer science degree, but also another opportunity to work together with peers to learn more about computer science and develop a project from scratch. I’m happy that I can work on something dealing with sports which is not something I’m able to do in an academic space as often as I would like. This also will test how much I’ve learned on my most recent data engineering co-op. I’m also excited about the interaction part of the project when we display our work at the expo towards the end of the course. In a similar light I’m interested in seeing what some of my peers who are not on my team end up completing during the extent of the course.

We still have a lot to scope before we can seriously consider what our approach to designing a solution is. I would imagine based on my work experience and other similar projects that product management and planning will be a massive part of the process at the beginning. Fleshing out our requirements for the project will also be a very important part of the project. My expectations for our results are extremely high, I think we are a good group of developers that are very capable of designing and developing our imagined product. I think with weekly meetings we will be able to constantly self-evaluate and evaluate as a team which will allow us to quickly adjust when needed and stay on course to build our vision.
