# Individual Assessment

> Stetson King (king3ss@mail.uc.edu), CS

The senior design project is the ultimate test of my computer science education. The last four years have been spent studying and working, all in pursuit of a career. With this project, I’m able to prove that not all of that has been in vain. It’s not only about technical skills, a huge portion of success in the real world comes from how you handle yourself as part of a team. I believe that this project will allow me to refine these skills and showcase to the world that I am ready.

At UC, I have taken many courses that, at the time, I was unsure the relevance of the subject to my goals. A good example of this, and it has the reputation to back it, is ENED 1100/1120. I now see that I learned valuable interpersonal skills that really laid a solid foundation for what was to come. ENED included two huge projects that really stressed the importance of working as a team. With Knowball and in any future project, these skills will prove invaluable. As far as technical skills go, CS1021C, Computer Science 1, laid the groundwork for my technical development. Without these two foundational courses, I do not believe that I would have felt comfortable in my skills and would have lost the motivation to continue this degree path. The good thing about fundamental skills is that you can always build upon them. With Knowball, I am not particularly comfortable with the skills that are required for my portion of the project. Luckily, I had great professors who instilled in me a motivation to succeed and provided the tools to do so. I have no doubt that I can learn anything with enough determination and in the CS field, learning is continuous.

At every single one of my co-ops, I learned valuable skills that I was able to put to use either at academically or at my next co-op. At GE Appliances, I worked in three different roles. I was an embedded software developer for 2 rotations and an iOS developer for the third. I learned embedded programming with C, test driven development, and how to function as part of an AGILE team. The first two skills are important, however not as important as the last. Every project is different in it’s own way, but one thing that stays the same is that teamwork is a requirement. If you cannot function as part of a team, you will really struggle to succeed. This is directly applicable to Knowball, as we are three teammates, all in pursuit of the same goal. The interpersonal skills that I learned are crucial to this success and will allow us to be more efficient.

The motivation for Knowball came from most of us loving sports. We wanted something that aligned with our personal interests, as we all know you are more likely to work on something you enjoy. We also wanted something that was sufficiently complex and would allow room for expansion if we felt the need. With Knowball, we all had certain features in mind that we would consider essential, yet we also all have ideas on ways that we could expand the feature set and improve the quality of our product.

I am most motivated to work on this project because it will give me an opportunity to dive deep into machine learning. I’ve always had a bit of an interest in the field, but now I can directly utilize the skills I am learning in my Deep Learning class, CS5173. The initial approach here is to build some sort of Obscurity engine in which to determine relative scores based on an athlete’s obscurity. The research is still ongoing, so I don’t have much to expand on at this point. The expected results for our project will be a fully functioning game that users at the expo can play. I will evaluate my performance based on the performance of the obscurity engine.
